#summary Short introduction and basic config to get you going
#labels intro,logstash,standalone,elasticsearch

= Introduction =

This guide shows how to get you going quickly with logstash on a single, standalone server collecting its own logs.

You'll want to download a few things:
* gem install logstash
* Download elasticsearch - http://www.elasticsearch.com/download/ (Requires elasticsearch 0.12.1 or newer)

== ElasticSearch ==

Unpack the elasticsearch. To start the service, run bin/elasticsearch. If you want to run it in the foreground, use 'bin/elasticsearch -f' 

== logstash ==

Once you have elasticsearch running, you're ready to configure logstash.

Note: If you did 'gem install logstash' you should have a 'logstash' tool in your path, if not, check the output of 'gem env' and look for the path listed as "EXECUTABLE DIRECTORY".

The configuration of any logstash agent consists of specifying inputs, filters, and outputs. For this example, we will not configure any filters.

The inputs are your log files. The output will be elasticsearch. The config format is YAML.

{{{
inputs:
  syslog: # each input must have a type, the type can be anything.
  - /var/log/messages
  - /var/log/syslog
  # Wildcards work.
  - /var/log/*.log
  apache-access:
  - /var/log/apache2/access.log
  apache-error:
  - /var/log/apache2/error.log

outputs:
- stdout:///   # output events to stdout for debugging
- elasticsearch://localhost:9200/logstash/logs
}}}

Call this file 'logstash.yaml' (or anything, really), and run: `logstash -f logstash.yaml`

== logstash web interface ==

Since this is standalone, on the same machine, run the logstash web interface:

...